# Introduction to Negative Covenants and Leakage

*KM Secondment Materials — CG&R Draft, February 2023*

*For internal reference only.*

---

## Introduction to Negative Covenants

- Negative covenants restrict activities / transactions by the loan parties and restricted subs. A breach of any one negative covenant gives lenders the right to accelerate and terminate commitments.
  - **Recall that** this is because a breach of a negative covenant triggers an automatic Event of Default. If an EoD has occurred and is continuing, recall that lenders have the right to exercise rights and remedies, including terminating commitments, calling the loans immediately due and payable, requiring default interest to be paid, requiring cash collateralization of L/Cs, foreclosing on collateral and demanding payment from guarantors.
  - **Note that** some transactions may fall under multiple covenants. Even if a transaction is permitted under one covenant, it may not be permitted under all covenants.
  - The negative covenants need to be reviewed carefully to determine whether a proposed transaction is permitted by the credit agreement.
- Each negative covenant includes a lead-in describing the restricted action, followed by exceptions. If the proposed activity / transaction satisfies any one exception, the covenant is satisfied (i.e. the proposed activity / transaction is not prohibited).
  - **Note that** exceptions are additive; if more than one exception applies, they can be added together.
  - These exceptions are commonly referred to as “baskets” (i.e. if proposed new debt fits within the purchase money / cap lease debt basket, that means it is permitted under the exception to the debt covenant that covers purchase money and cap leases).
- Typical negative covenants include:
1. Debt
2. Liens
3. Restricted Payments (RPs)
4. Investments
5. Prepayments of Junior Debt (JDPs); **note that** some credit agreements include RPs, investments and JDPs within one covenant
6. Asset Sales; note this covenant is sometimes called Dispositions
7. Transactions with Affiliates; note this is sometimes an affirmative covenant
8. Fundamental Changes (i.e. mergers); **note that** some credit agreements include Fundamental Changes and Asset Dispositions within one covenant
9. Amendments to Organizational Documents (not always present)
10. Amendments to Junior Debt Documents (not always present)
11. Passive Holdco Covenant (if there is a Holdco in the structure)
12. Financial Covenants (not always present)
- Recall that reviewing defined terms, even ones that seem to have an obvious plain meaning, is crucial. You need to know what counts as a “Restricted Payment” or an “Asset Sale” to fully understand the applicable negative covenant. This is true for all negative covenants.
- A few typical exceptions to negative covenants, or “baskets”, are listed below. **Note that** there are many exceptions / baskets in a typical credit agreement, and we are just touching on a few below as an introduction. Each basket will have limitations / parameters (for example, dollar caps, satisfaction of certain leverage ratios, restrictions on parties or default blockers1.)
1. Debt
   a. Intercompany debt
   b. Purchase money debt, including capital leases
   c. Debt in existence at closing that is described on a schedule
   d. Debt of an acquired entity
   e. Ratio debt (permitted if certain leverage ratio is met)
   f. General debt basket
2. Liens
   a. Statutory liens of landlords, carriers, warehouseman, mechanics, materialmen, construction contractors or similar arising in the ordinary course of business
   b. Liens consisting of easements, rights-of-way or encroachments
   c. Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an EoD
   d. General liens basket
3. RPs
   a. Ratio carveout
   b. Management / employee stock repurchases
   c. General RPs basket
4. Investments
   a. Ratio carveout
   b. Loans to officers, directors, employees, etc.
   c. Investments in similar businesses
   d. Investments in JVs
   e. General investments basket
5. JDPs
   a. Ratio carveout
   b. General JDPs basket
6. Asset Sales
   a. Dispositions of obsolete, worn-out, no longer useful or surplus property now owned or hereafter acquired
   b. Sale lease-backs
   c. Dispositions made to comply with anti-trust or similar laws (including in connection with an acquisition)
   d. Uncapped basket
- Note that the baskets might be in defined terms e.g. Asset Sale, Permitted Liens, Permitted Investments
- Holdco - In a Holdco structure, the Holdco has pledged the equity of the Borrower, but, there is no pledge over the equity of the Holdco. An equity pledge is important to lenders’ rights and remedies because, in the event lenders need to foreclose, they could foreclose on and take control over an entire entity that has been pledged as opposed to chasing individual assets. Because there is no pledge over the equity of the Holdco (i.e. lenders cannot take control of Holdco), lenders do not want significant operations / cash / business at the Holdco level.
  - If there is a Holdco, always check to see whether: (a) Holdco is a guarantor and (b) there is a passive Holdco covenant. In some cases, the guarantee of a Holdco is limited to the value of its pledged equity in the Borrower. A passive Holdco covenant goes by different names, e.g. Holding Company, Holding Company Status, Limitation on Activities, but will generally be found at the end of the negative covenants (typically the last negative covenant). Sometimes, there might be a short separate section on Holdco obligations, and if so, the passive Holdco covenant would be found there. Sample Passive Holdco Covenant:
> “ Section 7.14 Holding Company. Holdings shall not conduct, transact or otherwise engage in any material business or operations; provided, that the following shall be permitted in any event: (i) its ownership of the Equity Interests of the Parent Borrower and activities incidental thereto; (ii) the entry into and the performance of its obligations with respect to the Loan Documents (including any Specified Refinancing Debt or any Incremental Facility), and, the Second Lien Facility and any Permitted Refinancing thereof incurred pursuant to Section 7.03(x), any Refinancing Notes, any Incremental Equivalent Debt, any Permitted Debt Exchange Notes, the Junior Financing Documentation, and any other Indebtedness of the Borrowers and their Restricted Subsidiaries guaranteed by Holdings, and any documentation relating to any Permitted Refinancing of the foregoing; (iii) the consummation of the Transactions; (iv) the payment of dividends and distributions, the making of contributions to the capital of its Subsidiaries; (v) the maintenance of its legal existence (including the ability to incur fees, costs and expenses relating to such maintenance and performance of activities relating to its officers, directors, managers and employees and those of its Subsidiaries); (vi) performing its obligations under any sponsor management agreement or similar agreement, the Acquisition Agreement and the other documents and agreements, Investments contemplated by the Transactions and transactions with respect to the Borrowers that are otherwise specifically permitted or expressly contemplated by Article VII; (vii) the performing of activities in preparation for and consummating any public offering of its common stock or any other issuance or sale of its Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Equity Interests) including converting into another type of legal entity; (viii) the participation in tax, accounting and other administrative matters as a member of the consolidated group of the Borrowers, including compliance with applicable Laws and legal, tax and accounting matters related thereto and activities relating to its officers, directors, managers and employees; (ix) the holding of any cash and Cash Equivalents (but not operating any property); (x) the entry into and performance of its obligations with respect to contracts and other arrangements, including the providing of indemnification to officers, managers, directors and employees; and (xi) any activities incidental to the foregoing. Holdings shall not create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any Equity Interests of the Borrowers (other than Liens pursuant to any Loan Document, the Second Lien Facility and any Permitted Refinancing thereof incurred pursuant to Section 7.03(x) or non- consensual Liens arising solely by operation of Law and Liens pursuant to the Junior Financing Documentation, Incremental Facilities, Incremental Equivalent Debt, Specified Refinancing Debt and Refinancing Notes or any other secured Indebtedness of the Borrowers and their Restricted Subsidiaries guaranteed by Holdings or any documentation relating to any Permitted Refinancing of the foregoing) and shall not incur any Indebtedness (other than in respect of Disqualified Equity Interests, Qualified Holding Company Indebtedness or Guarantees permitted by clause (ii) above and other Guarantees of Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness for borrowed money) permitted by this Agreement). ”
- Financial Covenants
  - Incurrence covenants – Tested as a condition to certain actions, e.g. debt incurrence (Borrower can’t take the action unless satisfy the covenant).
  - Maintenance covenants – Ongoing test, regardless of whether Borrower wants to take a specific action. Tested on the last day of each quarter and looks at the last four consecutive quarters. o This is the type of covenant we are talking about when we refer to the “financial covenant.”
  - Leverage ratios test the Borrower’s debt burden, while coverage ratios test the Borrower’s ability to service its debt.

## Leakage

- Where an asset sits can make a big difference to Lenders, and their preference is in the following order:
1. Loan Parties: Since assets of Loan Parties are pledged (and even for non- collateral assets, Lenders have a senior debt interest in the assets), it is always best from a Lender’s perspective for assets to be retained by a Loan Party.
2. Non-Guarantor Restricted Subs: The next best case scenario is for assets to be in a Non-Guarantor Restricted Sub. Even though these assets are not part of Lenders’ collateral and do not support the debt, the actions of the Restricted Sub are restricted by the Credit Agreement, so these assets may not be easily dissipated. Further, lenders typically have an equity interest in the Non- Guarantor Restricted Sub (the equity of the top Non-Guarantor Restricted Sub is pledged, since it is an asset of a Loan Party).
3. Unrestricted Subs: Once an asset is in an Unrestricted Sub, it can be freely moved out of the borrower group and used for any purpose. This is the worst case from the Lenders’ perspective.
4. Everyone else (including sponsors and affiliates).
- The negative covenants allow flexibility for the Loan Parties to transfer assets outside of the credit group.
  - Lenders have an interest in containing collateral within the Loan Parties, because the Loan Parties are responsible for repayment of the loan. Any leakage up to sponsor (or other equity holders) (through the restricted payments (“RPs”) covenant), down to other entities (through the investments covenant) or laterally to other creditors (through the junior debt prepayments (“JDPs”) covenant) reduces cash and other collateral available to be applied to the loan.
  - Leakage may also occur pursuant to asset dispositions or affiliate transactions. 
## The Credits

- The Credits section of the credit agreement (typically Article 2, after the defined terms and interpretive provisions) sets forth the tranches of debt and borrowing mechanics. Look here for the following information (referred to herein as the
> “**Credits Checklist**”):
1. Types / Dollar Amounts of Facilities
2. Borrowing Requests
3. Letters of Credit
4. Swingline Facility
5. Interest Election
6. Repayment of Loans
7. Breakage
- Each **Credits Checklist** item is discussed below

### 1. Types / Dollar Amounts of Facilities

Term loan, revolver, swingline, letter of credit (commonly abbreviated as LC) and delayed draw term loan (commonly abbreviated as DDTL); not all credit agreements will include all of these facilities.
  - Dollar amount of the facility may be contained in a defined term instead of directly in this section of the credit agreement (e.g. “Term Loan Commitment”,
> “Revolving Credit Commitment”, “Letter of Credit Sublimit”, “Swingline Commitment”)
  - LC and swingline facilities are each sublimits under the revolver commitment. For example, if a loan includes a revolving credit facility commitment of $100 million, with a $15 million LC sublimit and $10 million swingline commitment, that does not mean that $125 million is available to borrow. If the Borrower uses up the $15 million LC sublimit by requesting LCs in that full amount, then the Borrower has $85 million left to borrower on the revolver, up to $10 million of which can be under the swingline.
  - Revolvers can be repaid and re-borrowed during the availability period (think of it like a credit card; the revolver commitment is like the credit card limit).
  - Unlike a revolver, a term loan cannot be repaid and re-borrowed; it is a one- time borrowing. Even in the case of a DDTL, once a particular tranche under the DDTL is borrowed, that tranche cannot be repaid and re-borrowed. The difference between a term loan and a DDTL is that the term loan is all borrowed in one shot, and the DDTL has multiple borrowing dates stretched over a negotiated period of time (the DDTL availability period). **Sample Provision:**
The Credits Section 2.01 Commitments. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein:
   (a) each Term B-1 Lender agrees to make Term B-1 Loans in Dollars1 to the Borrower on the Closing Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed its Term B-1 Loan Commitment,
   (b) each Term B-2 Lender agrees to make Term B-2 Loans in Dollars to the Borrower on the Closing Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed its Term B-2 Loan Commitment,
   (c) each Revolving Facility Lender agrees to make Revolving Facility Loans of a Class in Dollars or any Alternate Currency2 to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period 3 in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (i) such Lender’s Revolving Facility Credit Exposure of such Class exceeding such Lender’s Revolving Facility Commitment of such Class or (ii) the Revolving Facility Credit Exposure of such Class exceeding the total Revolving Facility Commitments of such Class. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Facility Loans,
   (d) each Lender having an Incremental Term Loan Commitment4 agrees, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the applicable Incremental Assumption Agreement, to make Incremental Term Loans to the
The Credits Borrower, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed its Incremental Term Loan Commitment, and
   (e) amounts of Term Loans borrowed … that are repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed. **Relevant Defined Terms:**
> “Term B-1 Lender” shall mean a Lender with a Term B-1 Loan Commitment.
> “Term B-1 Loans ” shall mean (a) the term loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower.
> “Term B-1 Loan Commitment ” shall mean, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Term B-1 Loans hereunder. The amount of each Lender’s Term B-1 Loan Commitment as of the Closing Date is set forth on Schedule 2.01. The aggregate amount of the Term B-1 Loan Commitments as of the Closing Date is $650,000,000.
> “Term B-2 Lender” shall mean a Lender with a Term B-2 Loan Commitment.
> “Term B-2 Loans ” shall mean (a) the term loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.01(b), and (b) any Incremental Term Loans in the form of Term B-2 Loans made by the Incremental Term Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.01(d).
> “Term B-2 Loan Commitment ” shall mean, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Term B-2 Loans hereunder. The amount of each Lender’s Term B-2 Loan Commitment as of the Closing Date is set forth on Schedule 2.01. The aggregate amount of the Term B-2 Loan Commitments as of the Closing Date is $850,000,000.
> “Revolving Facility Lender ” shall mean a Lender (including an Incremental Revolving Facility Lender) with a Revolving Facility Commitment or with outstanding Revolving Facility Loans.
> “Revolving Facility Loan ” shall mean a Loan made by a Revolving Facility Lender pursuant to Section 2.01(c). Unless the context otherwise requires, the term
> “Revolving Facility Loans” shall include the Other Revolving Loans.
> “Class” shall mean, (a) when used in respect of any Loan or Borrowing, whether such Loan or the Loans comprising such Borrowing are Term B-1 Loans, Term B-
The Credits Loans or Other Revolving Loans. Other Term Loans, Extended Revolving Loans or Other Revolving Loans that have different terms and conditions (together with the Commitments in respect thereof) from the Term B-1 Loans, Term B-2 Loans or the Initial Revolving Loans, as applicable, or from other Other Term Loans or other Extended Revolving Loans or other Other Revolving Loans, as applicable, shall each be construed to be in separate and distinct Classes.
> “Revolving Facility Credit Exposure” shall mean, at any time with respect to any Class of Revolving Facility Commitments, the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Facility Loans of such Class outstanding at such time (calculated, in the case of Alternate Currency Loans, based on the Dollar Equivalent thereof), (b) the Swingline Exposure applicable to such Class at such time and
   (c) the Revolving L/C Exposure applicable to such Class at such time minus, for the purpose of Sections 6.11 and 7.03, the amount of Letters of Credit that have been Cash Collateralized in an amount equal to the Minimum L/C Collateral Amount at such time. The Revolving Facility Credit Exposure of any Revolving Facility Lender at any time shall be the product of (x) such Revolving Facility Lender’s Revolving Facility Percentage of the applicable Class and (y) the aggregate Revolving Facility Credit Exposure of such Class of all Revolving Facility Lenders, collectively, at such time.
> “Revolving Facility Commitment ” shall mean, with respect to each Revolving Facility Lender, the commitment of such Revolving Facility Lender to make Revolving Facility Loans pursuant to Section 2.01(c), expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate permitted amount of such Revolving Facility Lender’s Revolving Facility Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08, (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender under Section 9.04, and (c) increased (or replaced) as provided under Section 2.21. The initial amount of each Lender’s Revolving Facility Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01 or in the Assignment and Acceptance or Incremental Assumption Agreement pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Revolving Facility Commitment, as applicable. The aggregate amount of the Lenders’ Revolving Facility Commitments on the Closing Date is $150,000,000. On the Closing Date, there is only one Class of Revolving Facility Commitments. After the Closing Date, additional Classes of Revolving Facility Commitments may be added or created pursuant to Incremental Assumption Agreements.

### 2. Borrowing Requests

This provisions sets forth how to request a borrowing, including how many days advance notice is needed. The number of days varies depending on the type of facility being borrowed under and the interest rate (e.g. swingline loan is same day notice, base rate borrowing could be same day but not necessarily, LIBOR/SOFR will not be same day). The terms
> “borrowing request” and “borrowing notice” are used interchangeably. **Sample Provision:**
The Credits Section 2.03 Requests for Borrowings. To request a Revolving Facility Borrowing and/or a Term Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by electronic means of a written Borrowing Request signed by the Borrower (a) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m. Local Time, on the Business Day of the proposed Borrowing (or, in each case, such shorter period as the Administrative Agent may agree5); provided, that, (i) to request a Eurocurrency Borrowing or ABR Borrowing on the Closing Date, the Borrower shall deliver such Borrowing Request to the Administrative Agent not later than 5:00 p.m., Local Time, one Business Day prior to the Closing Date6 (or such later time as the Administrative Agent may agree), (ii) any such notice of an ABR Revolving Facility Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e) may be given not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing and (iii) any such notice of an Incremental Revolving Borrowing or Incremental Term Borrowing may be given at such time as provided in the applicable Incremental Assumption Agreement. Each such Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable 7 (other than in the case of any Borrowing Request given in respect of the Closing Date , which may be conditioned upon the consummation of the Acquisition or, in the case of notice given in respect of Incremental Commitments, which may be conditioned as provided in the applicable Incremental Assumption Agreement). **Relevant Defined Terms:**
> “Eurocurrency Borrowing” shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Eurocurrency Loans.
> “Eurocurrency Loan” shall mean any Eurocurrency Term Loan or Eurocurrency Revolving Loan.
> “Eurocurrency Term Loan” shall mean any Term Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
> “Eurocurrency Revolving Loan” shall mean any Revolving Facility Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
> “Adjusted LIBO Rate” shall mean, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum equal to the greater of (x) (a) the LIBO Rate in effect for such Interest Period divided by (b) one minus the Statutory Reserves applicable to such Eurocurrency Borrowing, if any; provided that if the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be less than zero pursuant to this clause (x), such interest rate shall be deemed to be zero and (y) in the case of Eurocurrency Borrowings composed of Eurocurrency Term Loans, 0.75%.
> “Interest Period ” shall mean, as to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing or on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period applicable to such Borrowing, as applicable, and ending on the numerically corresponding day (or, if there is no numerically corresponding day, on the last day) in the calendar month that is 1, 2, 3 or 6 months thereafter (in each case for so long as such period is available for such Eurocurrency Borrowing) (or, if agreed to by the Administrative Agent, any shorter period), as the Borrower may elect; provided, however, that if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day; provided, further, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the initial Interest Period with respect to the Loans made on the Closing Date shall be the period commencing on the Closing Date and ending on September 30, 2021 and the initial Interest Payment Date in respect of such Interest Period shall be September 30, 2021. Interest shall accrue from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the last day of such Interest Period.
> “ABR” shall mean, for any day, a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect for such day plus 0.50%, (b) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one-month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1.00%; provided, that for the avoidance of doubt, the LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate determined on such day at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) by reference to the ICE Benchmark Administration Interest Settlement Rates (or the successor thereto if the ICE Benchmark Administration is no longer making a LIBO Rate available) for deposits in Dollars (as set forth by any service selected by the Administrative Agent that has been nominated by the ICE Benchmark Administration (or the successor thereto if the ICE Benchmark Administration is no longer making a LIBO Rate available) as an authorized vendor for the purpose of displaying such rates). Any change in such rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal
The Credits Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate, as the case may be.
> “ABR Borrowing” shall mean a Borrowing comprised of ABR Loans.
> “ABR Loan” shall mean any ABR Term Loan, ABR Revolving Loan or Swingline Loan.
> “ABR Term Loan” shall mean any Term Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the ABR in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
> “ABR Revolving Loan” shall mean any Revolving Facility Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the ABR in accordance with the provisions of Article II.

### 3. Letters of Credit

If the loan includes an LC facility, there will typically be a separate provision detailing requirements and terms. A Letter of Credit (or “LC”) is an irrevocable promise to pay made by an issuer (e.g. a bank) to a beneficiary, on behalf of the Borrower. The Borrower requests the LC, but it is payable to the beneficiary (not the Borrower). The LC contains triggers for when payment will be required, and if the beneficiary submits a payment demand based on such triggers, the issuer will make payment 8. Then, the Borrower will be obligated to repay the issuer. This guarantees the beneficiary full and prompt payment, and the issuer takes on the risk of seeking repayment from the Borrower. Certain contracts, for example contracts for government work, require LCs. It is not necessary to obtain an LC through an existing credit agreement. A Borrower could apply for an LC directly with a bank, however, that will involve separate diligence and documentation. The advantage of including an LC facility within a credit agreement is that much of the administrative work and lender approval to issue LCs for the Borrower has already been completed, and the Borrower is not scrambling if it suddenly needs an LC. If a notice of draw under an LC is received (i.e. a demand from the beneficiary for payment), the LC issuer will make such payment to the beneficiary, and then the Borrower must reimburse the LC issuer. If the Borrower does not promptly reimburse (the number of days for reimbursement will be set forth in the credit agreement and is typically the next business day), each revolving lender must take on its pro rata share of the outstanding LC debt. Mechanically, the unreimbursed funds are treated as a revolver borrowing. **Sample Provision:** Section 2.05 Letters of Credit.
   (a) General. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of one or more letters of credit or bank guarantees in Dollars or any Alternate Currency 9 in the form of (x) trade letters of credit or bank guarantees in support of trade obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries incurred in the ordinary course of business (such letters of credit or bank guarantees issued for such purposes, “Trade Letters of Credit”) and (y) standby letters of credit issued for any other lawful purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (such letters of credit issued for such purposes, “Standby Letters of Credit”; each such letter of credit or bank guarantee, issued hereunder, a “Letter of Credit” and collectively, the “Letters of Credit”) for its own account or for the account of any Subsidiary in a form reasonably acceptable to the applicable Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the applicable Availability Period and prior to the date that is five Business Days prior to the applicable Revolving Facility Maturity Date10;
   (b) Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension: Certain Conditions. To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal (other than an automatic extension in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section 2.05) or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the applicable Issuing Bank, to the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (at least three Business Days (or, in the case of a Letter of Credit issued in an Alternate Currency, five Business Days) in advance of the requested date11 of issuance, amendment or extension or such shorter period as the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank in their sole discretion may agree) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section 2.05), the amount and currency (which may be Dollars or any Alternate Currency) of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof, whether such Letter of Credit constitutes a Standby Letter of Credit or a Trade Letter of Credit and such other information as shall be necessary to issue, amend or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the applicable Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank’s standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be
The Credits issued, amended or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment or extension, (i) the aggregate Revolving Facility Credit Exposure of the applicable Class shall not exceed the aggregate Revolving Facility Commitments of such Class, (ii) the Revolving L/C Exposure shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit and (iii) with respect to the applicable Issuing Bank, the stated amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank (calculated, in the case of Alternate Currency Letters of Credit, based on the Dollar Equivalent thereof) shall not exceed the applicable Specified L/C Sublimit of such Issuing Bank then in effect12.

### 4. Swingline Facility

If the loan includes a swingline facility, there will typically be a separate provision detailing the requirements and terms. The swingline is a sub-facility of the revolver (similar to an LC facility). Swingline loans are available on shorter notice than the revolver, and the risk of non-payment by the Borrower is shared pro rata among the revolving lenders. Swingline loans are also available in smaller dollar amounts (e.g. a borrowing under the revolver might need to be at least $1 million, but under the swingline, can borrow in increments of $500k). The tradeoff for the immediately available funds is that they come at a higher interest rate and must be repaid much sooner than other revolver borrowings (typically 5-10 days). Swingline loans are meant to help the Borrower fund temporary cash management needs. **Sample Provision:** Section 2.04 Swingline Loans.
   (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans in Dollars to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding the Swingline Commitment or (ii) the Revolving Facility Credit Exposure of the applicable Class exceeding the total Revolving Facility Commitments of such Class. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
   (b) To request a Swingline Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Swingline Lender of such request by delivering a Swingline Borrowing Request by electronic means not later than 2:00 p.m., Local Time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Borrowing . Each such notice and Swingline
The Credits Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall specify (i) the requested date of such Swingline Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day) and (ii) the amount of the requested Swingline Borrowing. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 3:00 p.m., Local Time13, to the account of the Borrower (or, in the case of a Swingline Borrowing made to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e), by remittance to the applicable Issuing Bank).

### 5. Interest Election

This provision sets forth the types of interest elections the Borrower may make (the rate and the time period, e.g. 3 month LIBOR or SOFR). **Sample Provision:** Section 2.07. Interest Elections.
   (a) Each Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section 2.07. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
   (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section 2.07, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election in writing by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Borrowing of the Type 14 resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be made by electronic means to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request signed by the Borrower.
   (c) Each Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
   (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing); (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing 15 or a Eurocurrency Borrowing16; and (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term “Interest Period.”

### 6. Repayment of Loans

If there is a term loan, the amortization will be set forth in the repayment provisions, as will other mandatory prepayment events (e.g. proceeds from asset sale). Often, voluntary prepayment is contained in one provision, and mandatory prepayment in another. For now, we will only focus on amortization. **Sample Provision:**
> “ the Borrower shall repay Term B-1 Loans incurred on the Closing Date on the last day of each March, June, September and December of each year (commencing on the last day of the first full fiscal quarter of the Borrower ending after the Closing Date) and on the applicable Term Facility Maturity Date or, if any such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day (each such date being referred to as a “Term B-1 Loan Installment Date”), in an aggregate principal amount of such Term B-1 Loans equal to (A) in the case of quarterly payments due prior to the applicable Term Facility Maturity Date, an amount equal to 1.25% of the aggregate principal amount of such Term B-1 Loans outstanding immediately after the Closing Date, and (B) in the case of such payment due on the applicable Term Facility Maturity Date, an amount equal to the then unpaid principal amount of such Term B-1 Loans outstanding … ”
> “ In addition to any other mandatory repayments pursuant to this Section 5.02, on each date set forth below (each, a “Scheduled Repayment Date”), the Borrowers shall be required to repay to the Administrative Agent for the ratable account of the Lenders (i) on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and
The Credits December, commencing with March 31, 2022, an aggregate principal amount of Term B Loans equal to $1,312,500 and (ii) on the Initial Maturity Date for Term B Loans, the aggregate principal amount of all Term B Loans that remain outstanding on such date … ”
> “ The Borrowers, jointly and severally, hereby unconditionally promise to repay in Dollars the outstanding principal amount of the Initial Term Loans to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Initial Term Lender (A) commencing December 31, 2021, on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December (each such date being referred to as a “Loan Installment Date”) prior to the Initial Term Loan Maturity Date, in each case in an amount equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the Initial Term Loans … and (B) on the Initial Term Loan Maturity Date, in an amount equal to the remainder of the principal amount of the Initial Term Loans outstanding on such date, together in each case with accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount to be paid to but excluding the date of such payment … ”

### 7. Breakage Fee

In broad terms, the breakage fee (also referred to as a break fee) is a payment owed from a borrower to a lender to compensate for losses that may arise from a deviation in the lender’s expectations with respect to its cash management planning. As part of their cash management, commercial banks rely on assumptions based on the terms of their loans, such as the interest period or interest payment date of a given borrowing. When a borrower does something that invalidates these assumptions, such as converting the terms of a borrowing prior to the end of the interest period, it can have adverse effects on the lender’s cash management models and cost the lender money. Example: As discussed above, each benchmark rate borrowing (i.e. LIBOR or SOFR, or like benchmark for alternate currencies) must be made under a given interest period. Once a borrowing has been made under a given interest period, that borrowing looks like a fixed rate loan for that interest period, and it is possible that the lender itself has borrowed those funds to disburse to the borrower. In addition to borrowing the funds, lenders may enter into interest rate swaps and other hedging activities to protect itself against sudden rate changes, which themselves are tied to certain time periods and carry their own early termination fees. If a borrower’s benchmark rate loan is terminated earlier than the lender plans for (whether by early conversion or prepayment), the lender may also need to terminate its associated hedges and pay a fee for doing so. This termination fee would then be passed on to the borrower through the breakage fee provision. Recently, some sponsors have been pushing to remove breakage provisions, especially for term B lenders. The ask is often tied to the move from LIBOR to SOFR, even though the concept of breakage could still apply for SOFR-based rates in theory. It is important to flag if breakage is missing or limited to only one facility or tranche. As shown in the sample clauses below, this section of the credit agreement can have different names, and the term “break” is not always in the section title (e.g. Funding Losses, Compensation).
The Credits If you cannot find the provision, one way to try to locate it is to look at the prepayment section, where the language typically specifies that the any prepayment should be accompanied by the amount owing under the breakage provision (see example below). If you do not see the provision in the front of the credit agreement (generally in articles 2 or 3), check the indemnification section at the back (sometimes called “costs and expenses” and will be in the miscellaneous article at the end, typically right after the agency provisions article). Sample Breakage Provisions:
> “ Section 2.16 Break Funding Payments. Break Funding Payments. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Revolving Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.11(d) and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19 or Section 9.02(c), then, in any such event, the Borrower shall, after receipt of a written request by any Lender affected by any such event (which request shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for requesting such amount), compensate each Lender for the actual17 loss, cost and expense attributable to such event (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not include any margin or spread). For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this Section 2.16, each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Loan made by it at the Adjusted LIBO Rate (determined without giving effect to any interest rate “floor”) for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing for a comparable amount and for a comparable period whether or not such Eurocurrency Loan was in fact so funded. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 15 Business Days after receipt of such demand. ” Æ Breakage is due to each Lender
> “ Section 3.06 Funding Losses. Upon written demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for calculating such compensation, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
   (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any SOFR Loan or CDOR Rate Loan on a day prior to the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
   (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan or pursuant to a conditional notice) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any SOFR Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
   (c) any mandatory assignment of such Lender’s SOFR Loans and CDOR Rate Loans pursuant to Section 3.08 on a day prior to the last day of the Interest Period for such Loans, including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained (but excluding anticipated profits). ” Æ Breakage is due to each Lender
> “ Section 2.11 Compensation. If (a) any payment of principal of any LIBOR Loan is made by the Borrower to or for the account of a Lender prior to the last day of the Interest Period for such LIBOR Loan as a result of a payment or conversion pursuant to Sections 2.5, 2.6, 2.10, 5.1, 5.2 or 13.7, as a result of acceleration of the maturity of the Loans pursuant to Section 11 or for any other reason, (b) any Borrowing of LIBOR Loans is not made as a result of a revised or withdrawn Notice of Borrowing or a failure to satisfy borrowing conditions, (c) any ABR Loan is not converted into a LIBOR Loan as a result of a revised or withdrawn Notice of Conversion or Continuation, (d) any LIBOR Loan is not continued as a LIBOR Loan, as the case may be, as a result of a revised or withdrawn Notice of Conversion or Continuation or (e) any prepayment of principal of any LIBOR Loan is not made as a result of a revised or withdrawn notice of prepayment pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.2, the Borrower shall, after receipt of a written request by such Lender (which request shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for requesting such amount), promptly pay to such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that such Lender may reasonably incur as a result of such payment, failure to convert, failure to continue or failure to prepay, including any loss, cost or expense (excluding loss of anticipated profits or Applicable Margin) actually incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such LIBOR Loan. A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender as specified in this Section 2.11 and setting forth in reasonable detail the manner in which such amount or amounts were determined shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive, absent manifest error. ” Æ Breakage is due to each Lender
> “ Section 3.05 Funding Losses. Upon written demand of any Revolving Credit Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, which demand
The Credits shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for requesting such amount, the Borrowers jointly and severally shall promptly compensate such Revolving Credit Lender for and hold such Revolving Credit Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense actually incurred by it as a result of:
   (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Revolving Credit Loan of the Borrowers in the form of a Term Benchmark Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan; or
   (b) any failure by the Borrowers (for a reason other than the failure of such Revolving Credit Lender to make a Revolving Credit Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Revolving Credit Loan of the Borrowers in the form of a Term Benchmark Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Administrative Borrower; including any loss or expense (excluding loss of anticipated profits or margin) arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Term Benchmark Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. ” ÆBreakage is due only to Revolving Lenders
> “ Section 8.04 Costs and Expenses.18
   (a) The Administrative Borrower agrees to pay within 30 days after its receipt of a written request therefor, which request shall provide in reasonable detail the basis for the claim therefor, all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (A) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation, computer, duplication, appraisal, consultant, and audit expenses and (B) the reasonable and documented out-of- pocket fees and expenses of one primary counsel for the Administrative Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Administrative Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement and one local counsel in each applicable jurisdiction. The Administrative Borrower further agrees to pay within 30 days after its receipt of a written request therefor, which request shall provide in reasonable detail the basis for the claim therefor, all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable and documented out-of-pocket fees and expenses of one primary counsel), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this
The Credits Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable and documented out-of-pocket fees and expenses of one primary counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a), and, if reasonably necessary, one regulatory counsel and one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction for the Administrative Agent and the Lenders taken as a whole, and, solely in the case of a conflict of interest, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent or applicable Lenders (based upon the advice of counsel to the Administrative Agent or such Lenders), as the case may be, one additional counsel (and, if reasonably necessary, one regulatory counsel and one additional local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction) for the affected parties taken as a whole.
   (b) The Administrative Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agents, the Issuing Banks and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an
> “Indemnified Party”) from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable and documented out-of-pocket fees and expenses of one primary counsel and, if reasonably necessary, one regulatory counsel and one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction for the Indemnified Parties taken as a whole, and, solely in the case of a conflict of interest, as reasonably determined by the affected Indemnified Party (based upon the advice of counsel to such Indemnified Party), one additional counsel for the affected parties taken as a whole) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) (i) this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances or Letters of Credit or (ii) the actual or alleged presence of Hazardous Materials on any property of the Administrative Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except to the extent that such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from (x) the bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Party or any of its controlling or controlled Affiliates, directors, officers or employees, (y) a material breach by such Indemnified Party or any of its controlling or controlled Affiliates, directors, officers or employees of its obligations under the Loan Documents or (z) a claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding by one Indemnified Party against another Indemnified Party and not resulting from an act or omission of the Administrative Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their Affiliates (other than any such claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding brought against an Agent solely in its capacity as such or in fulfillment of its role as such). Promptly after receipt by an Indemnified Party of notice of the commencement of any action or proceeding involving a claim referred to in this subsection (b) above, such Indemnified Party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against
The Credits Administrative Borrower under this subsection (b), promptly give notice to Administrative Borrower of the commencement of such action or proceeding; provided, however, that the failure of such Indemnified Party to give notice provided in this subsection (b) shall not (i) relieve Administrative Borrower of its Obligations under this subsection (b), unless and to the extent that such failure results in the forfeiture of rights or defenses and Administrative Borrower incurs an increased Obligation to such Indemnified Party under this subsection (b) on account of such failure, and (ii) in any event relieve Administrative Borrower from any liability with respect to such Indemnified Party which Administrative Borrower may have otherwise on account of this Agreement. The Administrative Borrower shall not be liable for any settlement of any action or claim effected without the Administrative Borrower’s consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), and the Administrative Borrower shall not settle or compromise any action or claim affecting any Indemnified Party without such Indemnified Party’s prior written consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) if the settlement or compromise involves any performance by, or adverse admission of, such Indemnified Party. In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the indemnity in this Section 8.04 applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Administrative Borrower, its directors, equityholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person, whether or not any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. The Administrative Borrower also agrees not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Administrative Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances.
   (c) Upon any payment of any indemnified amount by Administrative Borrower to any Indemnified Party, Administrative Borrower shall be subrogated to all rights of such Indemnified Party to seek reimbursement from any other Person in connection with such indemnified amount.
   (d) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Alternative Currency Term Rate Advance or Term SOFR Advance is made by the Administrative Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08(c), 2.10 or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.07 as a result of a demand by the Administrative
The Credits Borrower pursuant to Section 8.07(a), the Administrative Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance. Æ Breakage is due to each Lender
   (e) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Administrative Borrower hereunder, (i) the agreements and obligations of the Administrative Borrower contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes and (ii) all representations and warranties made under this Agreement and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Advance, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding. ” Sample Prepayment Clause Referring to Breakage Provision
> “ Section 2.05 Prepayments.
   (a) Optional.
   (i) The Borrower may, upon notice by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent substantially in the form of Exhibit J, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty except as set forth in Section 2.05(a)(iii) below; provided that (1) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 2:00 p.m. (New York City time) (A) three (3) Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of SOFR Loan or any CDOR Rate Loan and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans (or, in each case, such shorter period as the Administrative Agent shall agree); (2) any prepayment of SOFR Loans or CDOR Rate Loans shall be (x) in a principal amount of $1,000,000, or (y) a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof; and (3) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be (x) in a principal amount of $500,000, or (y) a whole multiple of $250,000 in excess thereof or, in each case,
The Credits if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment, the Tranche of Loans to be prepaid, the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if SOFR Loans or CDOR Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans (except that if the class of Loans to be prepaid includes both (x) Base Rate Loans and SOFR Loans or (y) Base Rate Loans and CDOR Rate Loans, absent direction by the Borrower, the applicable prepayment shall be applied first to Base Rate Loans to the full extent thereof before application to SOFR Loans or CDOR Rate Loans, as applicable, in each case in a manner that minimizes the amount payable by the Borrower in respect of such prepayment pursuant to Section 3.06). The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender’s ratable portion of such prepayment (based on such Lender’s ratable share of the relevant Facility). If such notice is given by the Borrower, subject to clause (ii) below, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a SOFR Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest thereon, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to Section 2.05(a)(iii) and Section 3.06 19. Subject to Section 2.17, each prepayment of outstanding Loans pursuant to this Section 2.05(a) shall be applied to the Tranches designated in such notice and on a pro rata basis within such Tranche. Subject to Section 2.17, each prepayment of an outstanding Term Loan Tranche pursuant to this Section 2.05(a) shall be applied to the remaining amortization payments of such Term Loan Tranche as directed by the Borrower (or, if the Borrower has not made such designation, in direct order of maturity), but in any event on a pro rata basis to the Lenders within such Term Loan Tranche. ”
The Credits 
## Accordion (Incremental)

### A. Basic Information

The accordion (or incremental) section of the credit agreement allows Borrower to increase the size of the Facilities by a certain amount if they can find lenders to provide the increase, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this section.  If the increase is permitted under the accordion, an incremental amendment generally will not require the consent of existing lenders. Otherwise, the increase in debt would require consent, unless it is permitted by capacity under the debt covenant (and, if secured debt, the liens covenant)  Keep in mind existing lenders do not agree that they will provide the Facilities

### B. Incremental Capacity

Incremental capacity (the “certain amount”) referred to above may include any or all of the following components. Each of these is added together. Incremental capacity may be spelled out in the accordion section or that section may refer back to a defined term (e.g. “Incremental Cap” or “Maximum Incremental Facilities Amount”).
1. Dollar basket (sometimes referred to as the free and clear or fixed basket)  A dollar amount, customarily with an EBITDA grower
2. Unused capacity under other baskets  Some deals permit Borrower to reallocate unused capacity under other negative covenant baskets to instead incur debt under the accordion  Most commonly, this is limited to the general debt basket but could include other baskets
3. Voluntary prepayments basket  Voluntary prepayments of term loans under credit agreement and certain other debt increase incremental capacity
4. Ratio basket  Permits an unlimited amount of incremental debt if the ratio test is not exceeded (after giving effect to the incurrence of debt)  Many deals have separate tests for first lien debt, junior lien debt and unsecured debt  May be multiple options for unsecured debt and sometimes for junior lien debt. These are alternatives (meaning Borrower does not have to satisfy both tests)  Some deals also have a “no worse” option, which permits debt if the applicable ratio is not worse than prior to giving effect to the transactions. o Similar to the above, this is an alternative (meaning Borrower does not have to satisfy both tests) o Typically this only applies in connection with an acquisition, but is not always limited.  The ratio amount is calculated on a pro forma basis for the transaction and without netting any cash proceeds of the incurrence Here is an example of the “definition” approach:
> “Incremental Cap” means, as of any date of determination, the sum of: (I) (a) (i) the greater of (x) $56,000,000 and (y) 100% of Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently ended Test Period as of such date, calculated on a Pro Forma Basis [this is the dollar basket]; plus (ii) any General Debt Basket Reallocated Amount [this defined term refers to unused capacity under the general debt basket]; plus
   (b) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of all voluntary prepayments of Loans, Incremental Equivalent Debt and/or any other Indebtedness secured by the Collateral on a pari passu basis with, or senior to, the Secured Obligations (including purchases and redemptions of the Loans, Incremental Equivalent Debt and/or any other Indebtedness secured by the Collateral on a pari passu basis with, or senior to, the Secured Obligations by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at or below par, in which case the amount of voluntary prepayments of Loans shall be deemed to be the actual face amount of the resulting reduction in such Loans, Incremental Equivalent Debt, and/or any other Indebtedness secured by the Collateral on a pari passu basis with, or senior to, the Secured Obligations and the amount of any reduction in the outstanding amount of any loan resulting from the application of any “yank-a-bank” provisions (to the extent such Indebtedness is retired rather than assigned) (and in the case of any revolving loans, to the extent accompanied by a corresponding commitment reduction) (other than prepayments, repurchases and commitment reductions with the proceeds of (x) permitted Refinancing Indebtedness, (y) Indebtedness the proceeds of which are used to refinance the Term Loans and Revolving Loans and (z) other long-term Indebtedness (other than Revolving Loans)); minus [this is the voluntary prepayments basket]
   (c) the sum of aggregate principal amount of all Incremental Facilities and all Incremental Equivalent Debt outstanding at such time that was incurred in reliance on the foregoing clauses (I)(a) and/or (I)(b) [this says prior usage of clauses (a) and (b) are subtracted from availability under these basket]; plus (II) (a) in the case of any Incremental Facilities or Incremental Equivalent Debt secured by the Collateral on a pari passu basis with the Secured Obligations, the maximum aggregate principal amount that can be incurred without causing the Senior Secured First Lien Net Leverage Ratio to exceed the greater of (i) 5.50 to 1.00 for the most recently ended Test Period as of such date [this is the first lien ratio test] and (ii) the Senior Secured First Lien Net Leverage Ratio immediately prior to the incurrence of such Incremental Facility or Incremental Equivalent Debt [this is the “no worse” prong for the first lien ratio test];
   (b) in the case of any Incremental Facilities or Incremental Equivalent Debt secured by the Collateral on a junior basis to the Secured Obligations, the maximum aggregate principal amount that can be incurred without causing the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio to exceed the greater of (a) 6.50 to 1.00 for the most recently ended Test Period as of such date [this is the junior lien ratio test] or (b) the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio immediately prior to the incurrence of such Incremental Facility or Incremental Equivalent Debt [this is the “no worse” prong for the junior lien ratio test] ; and
   (c) in the case of any Incremental Facilities or Incremental Equivalent Debt that is unsecured, the maximum aggregate principal amount that can be incurred without causing, at the Borrower’s option, either:
   (i) the Total Net Leverage Ratio to exceed the greater of (a) 6.50 to 1.00 for the most recently ended Test Period as of such date [this is one option for the unsecured ratio test] and (b) the Total Net Leverage Ratio immediately prior to the incurrence of such Incremental Facility or Incremental Equivalent Debt [this is a “no worse” prong for the unsecured ratio test]; or (ii) the Interest Coverage Ratio to be less than the lesser of (a) 1.75 to 1.00 for the most recently ended Test Period as of such date [this is one option for the unsecured ratio test] or (b) the Interest Coverage Ratio immediately prior to the incurrence of such Incremental Facility or Incremental Equivalent Debt [this is a
> “no worse” prong for the unsecured ratio test]. This is a summary of the above: Dollar basket $56 million / 100% of EBITDA Includes unused capacity under other baskets? Unused capacity under the general debt basket Voluntary prepayments Generally customary Ratio tests First lien: 5.5x first lien net leverage ratio Junior lien: 6.5x secured net leverage ratio Unsecured: 6.5x total net leverage ratio or 1.75x interest coverage ratio Subject, in each case, to no worse optionality for any incurrence (not limited to acquisitions / investments)

### C. Limitations on Terms of Incremental Facilities

Basic idea is that the existing lenders do not want the incremental lenders to have better terms (from a lender’s perspective). This includes limitations on the following:
1. Pricing (MFN)  Borrower will not pay a higher yield (generally the interest rate taking into account the issue price) on incremental term loans than the yield paid on the existing term loans without increasing yield on the existing loans  **MFN trigger** (sometimes referred to as “cushion” or “differential”) permits yield on the new loans to be higher by a certain amount without the MFN going into effect o For example, if the **MFN trigger** is 50 bps and yield on existing loans is 5%, then new loans at 5.50% will not trigger the MFN. If new loans have a 7% yield, yield on existing loans will be increased to 6.50%. o In the below example, the **MFN trigger** is 1.00% (typically referred to as 100 bps)  MFN often applies only for a specified period after closing o The period of time after which the MFN falls away is the **MFN sunset** o Some deals do not have a sunset, so the MFN applies “for life” o In the below example, the **MFN sunset** is 6 months  **MFN carveouts**: certain exceptions that permit the Borrower to incur incremental debt without triggering the MFN o The below example has 7 carve-outs, summarized as follows: **MFN carveouts**
1. Capped amount
2. Limited to certain prongs
3. M&A
4. Maturity
5. Syndicated
6. Currency
7. Others
1. $86 million / 200% of EBITDA
2. Incurred under ratio prong
3. Incurred in connection with an acquisition / investment
4. Maturing on or prior to initial TL
5. Broadly syndicated
6. Denominated in dollars
7. Floating rate loans Example: provided that solely with respect to any New Term Loan, except with respect to amounts up to the greater of $86,000,000 and an amount equal to 200% of Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently ended Test Period (calculated on a Pro Forma Basis), that (1) is not incurred in connection with a Permitted Acquisition or other investment, (2) consists of floating rate term loans that are pari passu in right of payment and security with the Initial Term Loans, (3) is incurred under clause (i)(a)(1) of the definition of
> “Maximum Incremental Facilities Amount” (and not by virtue of reclassification), (4) is broadly syndicated to banks and other institutional investors, (5) is incurred prior to the date that is six (6) months after the Closing Date, [this is the sunset] (6) is scheduled to mature on or prior to the maturity date of the Initial Term Loans, and (7) is denominated in US dollars, if the Effective Yield for LIBOR Loans or ABR Loans in respect of such New Term Loans or New Delayed Draw Term Loans, as applicable, exceeds the Effective Yield for LIBOR Loans or ABR Loans, respectively, in respect of the Initial Term Loans by more than 1.00% [this is the trigger], the Applicable Margin for LIBOR Loans or ABR Loans in respect of the Initial Term Loans shall be adjusted so that the Effective Yield in respect of the Initial Term Loans is equal to the Effective Yield for LIBOR Loans or ABR Loans in respect of the New Term Loans or New Delayed Draw Term Loans, as applicable, minus 1.00% The MFN customarily also applies to new pari passu term loan debt incurred under certain debt carveouts outside of the accordion (incremental equivalent debt, ratio debt and acquisition debt), with the same carveouts as the accordion.
2. Maturity  New loans cannot mature prior to the existing loans (clause (i) in the example below)  New loan cannot have a shorter weighted average life to maturity (a calculation to determine the average length of time debt remains outstanding, which takes amortization in account) than the existing loans (clause (ii) in the example below)  Both of these general rules may have an exception which permits certain debt to mature inside the existing loans and/or have a shorter weighted average life than the existing loans, referred to as the “**maturity limitations carveout**” or “inside maturity basket” o Often a dollar amount with an EBITDA grower (clause (x) of the proviso below) o May also include other unlimited components (clause (y) of the below)  Maturity limitations are important because allowing new debt to mature prior to the existing debt is basically subordination if Borrower is in a bind when the earlier maturing debt is coming due (imagine a struggling borrower with some debt due in 1 year other debt due in 3 years—which tranche will get refinanced first?) Example:
   (i) the applicable New Term Loan Maturity Date of each Series shall be no earlier than the Initial Term Loan Maturity Date; (ii) the weighted average life to maturity of all New Term Loans and New Delayed Draw Term Loans shall be no shorter than the weighted average life to maturity (without giving effect to prepayments) of the Initial Term Loans; provided that clauses (i) and (ii) shall not apply to (x) up to the greater of (a) $86,000,000 and (b) 200% of Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently ended Test Period (calculated on a Pro Forma Basis) of New Term Loans as elected by the Borrower and (y) New Term Loans incurred in connection with a Permitted Acquisition or other investment This is summarized as follows: **Maturity limitations carveout** $86 million / 200% of EBITDA plus amounts incurred in connection with a permitted acquisition / investment As with the MFN, maturity limitations customarily also apply to new pari passu term loan debt incurred under certain debt carveouts outside of the accordion (incremental equivalent debt, ratio debt and acquisition debt), with the same **maturity limitations carveout** if applicable.
3. Credit support (i.e. guarantees and collateral) and ranking  New loans should not have a senior ranking (in right of payment or liens) to the existing loans (clause (i) below)  New loans should not have collateral that the initial facility does not have (clause (ii) below)  New loans should not have guarantees that the existing loans do not have (clause (iii) below)  Some deals have exceptions to this (or do not include these limitations at all) Example: The Incremental Term Facilities shall (i) rank equal or junior in right of payment with the Term Loans, (ii) if secured, be secured only by the Collateral securing the Secured Obligations and (iii) only be guaranteed by the Loan Parties

## Mandatory Prepayments

Mandatory Prepayments  Mandatory prepayments – Certain events require all or a portion of the term loan to be prepaid ahead of schedule.  Three common types of mandatory prepayments in first lien term loan B credit agreements relate to asset sales, excess cash flow and debt incurrence.  Lenders typically have the right to reject mandatory prepayments due to asset sales or excess cash flow. Asset Sales  The asset sale mandatory prepayment (or as it is commonly called, the “asset sale sweep”) requires net cash proceeds from sales or dispositions of certain assets to be used to prepay the term loan.  Typical issues / points of negotiation:

### 1. Scope

The asset sale sweep section will outline which types of asset sales trigger the prepayment requirement. For example, the prepayment requirement may only be triggered if assets are sold / disposed of pursuant to certain baskets within the asset sale negative covenant.
  - When reviewing scope, also look at which parties the assets being sold must belong to and if the provision covers sales of any property owned by such parties or if it is limited to only collateral owned by such parties.
  - A broad scope would be if sales under multiple asset sale baskets trigger the prepayment requirement, the parties selling such assets are the Borrower and the restricted subsidiaries, and all assets are covered (not just collateral).  This scope gets narrowed (and less lender friendly) if it is revised for example to only apply to sales of collateral. 
  - **Note that** in bond-style credit agreements, and in indentures, the defined term “Asset Sale” is typically defined to only pick up sales under the uncapped basket. The way the drafting works here is that all the carve- outs are within the “Asset Sale” definition, so when the term “Asset Sale” is used in the agreement, it ends up meaning only sales under the uncapped basket.  If the scope doesn’t seem clear just from looking at the asset sale sweep provision, take a look at the definition of “Asset Sale”.

### 2. Step-downs

From a lender perspective, it is better if 100% of the net cash proceeds from the asset sale must be applied to the prepayment. However, there are agreements with step-downs and these step-downs are based on leverage ratios.
  - In this formulation, the prepayment requirement starts at 100% of net cash proceeds and then typically is reduced (or “steps-down”) to 50% if a certain leverage ratio is achieved and then step-down again to 0% if another (lower) leverage ratio is achieved. If 0% is reached, this means no prepayment is required.
3. **Deductible** – If there is a deductible, only net cash proceeds in excess of the deductible amount are required to be swept.
4. **Reinvestment period** – Prepayment not required if the net cash proceeds are used to make certain reinvestments into the business within a certain negotiated time period.
  - Some deals permit net cash proceeds to be temporarily applied to pay down revolver pending final application of such proceeds to the asset sale sweep. More aggressive deals permit net cash proceeds to be applied for other permitted purposes as well, in addition to revolver paydown.  The asset sale sweep provisions often also pick up proceeds from casualty or recovery events (insurance proceeds or condemnation awards). This could be included within the asset sale sweep or in a separate section addressing casualty / recovery events.  **Practice tip –** Carefully review all defined terms and cross-references used within the asset sale sweep provisions. Scope, step-downs, a deductible and / or a reinvestment period can be hidden in defined terms or in other sections that are incorporated by cross- reference. Pay close attention to the definition of net cash proceeds as reinvestment periods / threshold can be in this defined term. **Asset Sale Sweep Example1** 2.10(c): Subject to the provisions of Section 6.04(b), in the event and on each occasion that any Net Proceeds are received by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Prepayment Event described in clause (a) of the definition thereof , the Borrower shall prepay Term Loans in an aggregate amount equal to (x) 100% of such Net Proceeds if the Senior Secured First Lien Net Leverage Ratio (after giving effect to any prepayments made prior to the date of such prepayment) as of the date of such Prepayment Event is greater than 4.25 to 1.00, (y) 50% of such Net Proceeds if the Senior Secured First Lien Net Leverage Ratio (after giving effect to any prepayments made prior to the date of such prepayment) as of the date of such Prepayment Event is greater than 3.75 to 1.00 but less than or equal to 4.25 to 1.00 and (z) 0% of such Net Proceeds if the Senior Secured First Lien Net Leverage Ratio (after giving effect to any prepayments made prior to the date of such prepayment) as of the date of such Prepayment Event is less than or equal to 3.75 to 1.00; provided, further, that the Borrower may use a portion of such Net Proceeds to prepay or repurchase any other Indebtedness that is secured by the Collateral on a pari passu basis with the Secured Obligations to the extent such other Indebtedness and the Liens securing the same are not
   (i) (A) to prepay Loans or Indebtedness in accordance with Section 2.10(c) or (B) to the extent not required to prepay Loans pursuant to Section 2.10(c), be retained by the Borrower and/or Restricted Subsidiaries; or (ii) to make investments in the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; provided that the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries will be deemed to have complied with this clause (ii) if and to the extent that (1) within the Reinvestment Period after the Asset Sale that generated the Net Proceeds, the Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary has entered into and not abandoned or rejected a binding agreement or letter of intent to consummate any such investment described in this clause (ii) with the good faith expectation that such Net Proceeds will be applied to satisfy such commitment within 180 days of such commitment (an
> “Acceptable Commitment”) and, in the event any such commitment is later cancelled or terminated for any reason before the Net Proceeds are applied in connection therewith, the Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary enters into another Acceptable Commitment (a
> “Second Commitment”) within 180 days of such cancellation or termination; provided that if any Second Commitment is later cancelled or terminated for any reason before such Net Proceeds are applied, then the Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary shall prepay the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10(c) or (2) the Borrower and/or any Restricted Subsidiary shall have made investments in the Borrower and/or any Subsidiary prior to the date of the consummation of such Asset Sale but following the earlier of notice of and execution of a definitive agreement for such Asset Sale. Defined Terms:
> “Prepayment Event” means:
   (a) any non-ordinary course sale, transfer or other disposition of any Collateral made in accordance with Section 6.04(a)(ii) other than sales, transfers or other dispositions resulting in aggregate Net Proceeds not exceeding (A) the greater of (x) $46,500,000 and (y) 21.5% of Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently ended Test Period as of such date, calculated on a Pro Forma Basis in the case of any single transaction or series of related transactions and (B) the greater of (x) $99,500,000 and (y) 46% of Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently ended Test Period as of such date, calculated on a Pro Forma Basis for all such transactions during any fiscal year of the Borrower;
> “Reinvestment Period” shall mean 540 days following the date of receipt of Net Proceeds in respect of any Prepayment Event described in clause (a) of the definition thereof. This asset sale sweep provision would be summarized as follows: Asset sale sweep scope Limited to sales of collateral under the uncapped basket; does not extend to casualty events Asset sale sweep step-downs 50% at 4.25x net first lien leverage, 0% at 3.75x Asset sale sweep “deductible” $46.5 million / 21.5% of EBITDA per transaction $99.5 million / 46% of EBITDA per fiscal year Asset sale reinvestment 540 days + 180 days with a commitment + an additional 180 days with a second commitment if first is terminated or retroactively applied to investments made following the earlier of notice of and execution of a definitive agreement for such asset sale Excess Cash Flow  The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment (or as it is commonly called, the “ECF sweep”) was originally intended to require the Borrower to use a portion of its excess cash to prepay debt rather than using it in other ways.  In the current market, there are many deductions or credits the Borrower can take into account when calculating its excess cash flow. The practical result is that Borrowers often do not end up making ECF sweep payments. However, lenders still expect to see the provision in the credit agreement.  Typical issues / points of negotiation:

### 1. Step-downs

Typically, the ECF sweep starts at 50% of ECF and then is reduced (or “steps-down”) to 25% if a certain leverage ratio is achieved and then step- down again to 0% if another (lower) leverage ratio is achieved. If 0% is reached, this means no prepayment is required.
  -
2. Deductible - If there is a deductible, only ECF in excess of the deductible amount is required to be swept.
3. **Credits** – When performing its ECF calculation the Borrower subtracts the credits permitted under the ECF provision. This results in a reduction of the amount of ECF payment that is due.
  - You may hear these referred to as “dollar-for-dollar reductions”. These
> “dollar-for-dollar reductions” are the more aggressive formulation and the deductions typically show up in the mandatory prepayments section. The more traditional version just has the deductions in the definition of Excess Cash Flow.

### 4. Carry-forward

If ECF credits that are deducted exceed the required prepayment amount, unused amounts may be carried forward. The carry-forward period is negotiated (e.g. could be permitted only to carry-forward for one year, or for any subsequent years).  **Practice tip –** Carefully review all defined terms and cross-references used within the ECF sweep provisions. Step-downs, a deductible and credits can be hidden in defined terms or in other sections that are incorporated by cross-reference. **ECF Sweep Example2** 2.10(d): Following the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022, the Borrower shall prepay Term Loans in an aggregate amount equal to the excess of (x) the ECF Percentage of Excess Cash Flow for such fiscal year over
   (y) the greater of (i) $32,000,000 and (ii) 15% of Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently ended Test Period as of such date, calculated on a Pro Forma Basis; provided that such amount shall, at the option of the Borrower, be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis for such fiscal year by:
   (i) the aggregate amount of prepayments and repurchases of (A) Term Loans (and to the extent the Revolving Commitments are reduced in a corresponding amount pursuant to Section 2.07, Revolving Loans) made pursuant to Section 2.10(a) (or otherwise in a manner permitted by Section 9.04(g)) and (B) other Consolidated Senior Secured First Lien Indebtedness, in each case during such fiscal year (without duplication of amounts deducted pursuant to this clause (i) in prior fiscal years), or after such fiscal year and on or prior to the 90th day after the end of such fiscal year; provided further that (1) such reduction as a result of prepayments pursuant to Section 2.10(a)(ii) or Section 9.04(g) shall be limited to the actual amount of such cash prepayment, (2) in the case of the prepayment of any revolving commitments, there is a corresponding reduction in commitments and (3) such reduction shall exclude all such prepayments funded with the proceeds of other long-term Indebtedness (other than the Revolving Loans and Indebtedness that has been repaid); and (ii) in each case without duplication of any such reduction from the definition of “Excess Cash Flow” by such amounts (provided that in the event that duplication would occur, such amounts shall be deducted pursuant to this clause (ii) rather than from the definition of “Excess Cash Flow”), by the aggregate amount of clauses (b)(ii), (vi), (vii), (viii), (ix), (x), (xi), (xii), (xiii) and (xiv) of the definition of “Excess Cash Flow” for such fiscal year and on or prior to the 90th day after the end of such fiscal year; provided, further, that such
> “ECF Percentage” means, with respect to the prepayment required by Section 2.10(d) with respect to any fiscal year of the Borrower, if the Senior Secured First Lien Net Leverage Ratio (after giving effect to the applicable prepayment pursuant to Section 2.10(d), (assuming in the case of clause (a) below, a 50% ECF Percentage, and, in the case of clause
   (b) below, a 25% ECF Percentage), and after giving effect to any voluntary prepayments made pursuant to Section 2.10(a) or otherwise in a manner permitted by Section 9.04(g) prior to the date of such prepayment) as of the end of such fiscal year is (a) greater than 4.25 to 1.00, 50% of Excess Cash Flow for such fiscal year, (b) greater than 3.75 to 1.00 but less than or equal to 4.25 to 1.00, 25% of Excess Cash Flow for such fiscal year and (c) less than or equal to 3.75 to 1.00, 0% of Excess Cash Flow for such fiscal year.
> “Excess Cash Flow” means, for any period, an amount equal to the excess of:
   (a) the sum, without duplication, of:
   (i) Consolidated Net Income for such period, (ii) an amount equal to the amount of all Non-Cash Charges to the extent deducted in arriving at such Consolidated Net Income, (iii) decreases in Consolidated Working Capital and long-term accounts receivable for such period (other than decreases relating to dispositions made in reliance on clause (j) of the definition of “Asset Sale”); and (iv) an amount equal to the aggregate net non-cash loss on dispositions by the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries during such period (other than dispositions in the ordinary course of business) to the extent deducted in arriving at such Consolidated Net Income, less:
   (b) the sum, without duplication, of:
   (i) an amount equal to the amount of all non-cash credits included in arriving at such Consolidated Net Income (including any amounts included in Consolidated Net Income of proceeds received or due from business interruption insurance or reimbursement of expenses and charges that are covered by indemnification and other reimbursement provisions in connection with any acquisition or other Investment or any disposition of any asset not prohibited under this Agreement to the extent such amounts are due but not received during such period) and cash charges included in clauses (1), (2), (8), (10), (11), (12), (16) and (17) of the definition of “Consolidated Net Income” (other than cash charges in respect of Transaction Costs paid on or about the Effective Date to the extent financed with the proceeds of Indebtedness incurred on the Effective Date or an equity investment on the Effective Date); (ii) without duplication of amounts deducted pursuant to clause (xii) below in prior fiscal years, the amount of capital expenditures (including Capitalized Software Expenditures and purchases of Intellectual Property) made in cash or accrued during such period, except to the extent that such capital expenditures were financed with the proceeds of long-term Indebtedness of the Borrower or the Restricted Subsidiaries (other than the Revolving Loans and Indebtedness that has been repaid); (iii) the aggregate amount of all principal payments of Indebtedness (including (1) the principal component of payments in respect of Capitalized Leases and (2) the amount of any mandatory prepayment of Loans to the extent required due to a disposition that resulted in an increase to Consolidated Net Income and not in excess of the amount of such increase, but excluding all other prepayments of Term Loans and all prepayments of revolving loans (including Revolving Loans)) made during such period, other than (A) in respect of any revolving credit facility except to the extent there is an equivalent permanent reduction in commitments thereunder and (B) to the extent financed with the proceeds of other Indebtedness of the Borrower or the Restricted Subsidiaries; (iv) an amount equal to the aggregate net non-cash gain on dispositions by the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries during such period (other than dispositions in the ordinary course of business) to the extent included in arriving at such Consolidated Net Income;
   (v) increases in Consolidated Working Capital and long-term accounts receivable for such period; (vi) cash payments by the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries during such period in respect of long-term liabilities of the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries other than Indebtedness; (vii) without duplication of amounts deducted pursuant to clause (xii) below in prior fiscal years, the amount of Investments (other than Investments in Permitted Investments) and acquisitions not prohibited by this Agreement, except to the extent that such Investments and acquisitions were financed with the proceeds of long-term Indebtedness of the Borrower or the Restricted Subsidiaries (other than the Revolving Loans and Indebtedness that has been repaid); (viii) the amount of dividends and other Restricted Payments (including the amount of Tax Distributions made by the Borrower to the extent not deducted in arriving at Consolidated Net Income) paid in cash during such period, except to the extent that such dividends and Restricted Payments were financed with the proceeds of long-term Indebtedness of the Borrower or the Restricted Subsidiaries (other than the Revolving Loans and Indebtedness that has been repaid); (ix) the aggregate amount of payments and expenditures actually made by the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries in cash during such period (including expenditures for the payment of financing fees) to the extent that such payments and expenditures are not expensed during such period;
   (x) cash payments by the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries during such period in respect of Non-Cash Charges included in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income in any prior period; (xi) the aggregate amount of any premium, make-whole or penalty payments actually paid in cash by the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries during such period that are required to be made in connection with any prepayment of Indebtedness; (xii) at the option of the Borrower, and without duplication of amounts deducted in prior periods, (A) the aggregate consideration required to be paid in cash by the Borrower or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to binding contracts, commitments, letters of intent or purchase orders (the
> “Contract Consideration”), in each case, entered into prior to or during such period and (B) the aggregate amount of cash that is reasonably expected to be paid in respect of planned cash expenditures by the Borrower or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries (the “Planned Expenditures”), in the case of each of clauses (A) and (B), relating to Permitted Acquisitions, other Investments (other than Investments in Permitted Investments), capital expenditures (including Capitalized Software Expenditures or other purchases of Intellectual Property) or Restricted Payments to be consummated or made during a subsequent period; provided, that to the extent the aggregate amount of cash actually utilized to finance such Permitted Acquisitions, Investments, capital expenditures or Restricted Payments during such subsequent period (excluding any cash from the proceeds of long-term Indebtedness of the Borrower or the Restricted Subsidiaries (other than the Revolving Loans and Indebtedness that has been repaid)) is less than the Contract Consideration and Planned Expenditures, the amount of such shortfall shall be added to the calculation of Excess Cash Flow at the end of such subsequent period; (xiii) the amount of cash payments made in such period to the extent they exceed the amount of rent payments deducted in determining Consolidated Net Income for such period; and (xiv) the amount of taxes (including penalties and interest) paid in cash and/or tax reserves set aside or payable (without duplication) in such period to the extent they exceed the amount of tax expense deducted in determining Consolidated Net Income for such period. This ECF sweep provision would be summarized as follows: ECF sweep step-downs 25% at 4.25x net first lien leverage, 0% at 3.75x ECF sweep “deductible” $32 million / 15% of EBITDA ECF sweep credits (other than prepayments of the Facilities / first lien debt) Capital expenditures, acquisitions/investments, and restricted payments and certain other expenditures, in each case made in cash and certain planned expenditures in respect of the foregoing Other notable features If ECF deductions exceed required prepayment amount, permits carryover of unused amounts to succeeding fiscal years Debt  The debt mandatory prepayment (or as it is commonly called, the “debt sweep”) generally requires net cash proceeds from the incurrence of debt not permitted by the credit agreement to be used to prepay the term loan.  This is typically not a controversial point and you should note if there is no debt sweep. **Debt Sweep Example3** 2.13 (d): In the event that Holdings or any Subsidiary shall receive Net Cash Proceeds from the issuance of Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than Indebtedness for borrowed

## Representations and Warranties

- Representations and warranties (commonly abbreviated as “reps and warranties” or just “reps”) serve as a risk-allocation tool. The more reps and warranties a Borrower makes in the credit agreement, the more risk is allocated to the Borrower (because, if a rep / warranty is breached, the Borrower bears the consequences of the breach, for example, an EoD).
- The more negotiating power the Lenders have in a deal, the more fulsome the reps and warranties will be, both in terms of what is represented and warranted to (i.e. the list of reps and warranties) and the extent of such statements, for example if they are MAE, materiality or knowledge qualified (see below).
- Some reps and warranties are “MAE qualified”; this means that the rep / warranty is not breached if there is a failure to meet the language of the rep / warranty but such failure would not, or would not reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect.
  - The term “Material Adverse Effect” is a negotiated, defined term:
> “ “Material Adverse Effect” means (a) a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or assets of Holdings, the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole,
   (b) a material and adverse effect on the ability of the Loan Parties (taken as a whole) to perform their payment obligations under the Loan Documents or (c) a material and adverse effect on the rights and remedies (taken as a whole) of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, taken as a whole, under the Loan Documents. ”
- Some reps and warranties may be “materiality qualified”, as shown below:
> “ Holdings, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance, in all material respects, with the applicable Sanctions. ”
- Some reps and warranties may be “knowledge qualified”; this means that the statement made by the party making the rep / warranty (e.g. the Borrower) is subject to the knowledge of such party. The term “knowledge” can be a negotiated, defined term, or it could be lowercase (and therefore subject to the plain meaning of the word). If the term is defined, it will typically mean the actual or constructive knowledge of specific officers of the entity (so, for example, it would not include knowledge of low-level employees who would not have access to much company information).
- Reps and warranties in a credit agreement will typically cover different parties throughout, depending on what is being represented / warranted. For example, a
Representations and Warranties rep / warranty on entity valid existence and good standing could apply to the Borrower and all restricted subs, while a rep / warranty on binding effect of the loan documents would apply only to the loan parties (the entities entering into the loan documents). If there is a holding company, it should also be included in the relevant reps.
- Reps and warranties are made at closing, though if the deal is an LBO (a leveraged buyout), reps made at closing may be limited to certain specified reps and specified reps under the acquisition agreement. These limitations would be negotiated and set forth in the commitment letter.
  - If reps and warranties are required to be made, they are typically only required to be true in all material respects. However, if the rep itself is already MAE qualified, then it must be true in all respects, since materiality is already built in (i.e. there should not be a “double materiality” qualifier).
- After closing, reps and warranties may be “brought-down” at various times throughout the life of the loan, all of which are negotiated in the credit agreement. Common rep and warranty bring-down events include a new borrowing and a material amendment to the credit agreement. An example of rep bring down language is as follows (clause (a) below):
> “ Section 4.02 Conditions to All Credit Extensions. The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension after the Closing Date is subject to the following conditions precedent:
   (a) The representations and warranties of each Loan Party contained in Article 5 or any other Loan Document shall be true and correct in all material respects (except that any representation and warranty that is qualified as to “materiality” or
> “Material Adverse Effect” shall be true and correct in all respects as so qualified) on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date. ”
- When reviewing reps, always look at the following items:
  - Parties covered by rep
  - MAE / materiality qualifiers
  - Knowledge qualifiers
- An example reps and warranties section is attached as Exhibit A hereto.
Representations and Warranties Exhibit A Reps and Warranties Excerpted from System1 Credit Agreement ARTICLE 5
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES On the dates and to the extent required pursuant to Sections 4.01 or 4.02, as applicable, the Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent that: Section 5.01. Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws. Each Restricted Company (a) is a Person, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, (d) is in compliance with all Laws (including Environmental Laws), orders, writs and injunctions, and (e) has all requisite governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to operate its business as currently conducted; except in each case referred to in clauses (a) (other than with respect to the Borrower’s valid existence), (c), (d) or (e), to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.02. Authorization; No Contravention. The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is a party, and, as of the Closing Date, the consummation of the Transactions, are (a) within such Loan Party’s corporate or other powers, (b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, shareholder or other organizational action, and (c) do not and will not (i) contravene the terms of any of such Person’s Organization Documents, (ii) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under (other than as permitted by Section 7.01), or require any payment to be made under, (A) any Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or affecting such Person or the properties of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or (B) any order, injunction, writ or decree, of or with any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject, or (iii) violate any Law, except with respect to any conflict, breach, violation or contravention or payment (but not creation of Liens) referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) to the extent that such conflict, breach, contravention or payment would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.03. Governmental Authorization; Other Consents. No material approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required to be made or obtained by any Loan Party in connection with (a) the execution, delivery or performance by any Loan Party of this Agreement
Representations and Warranties or any other Loan Document, (b) the grant by any Loan Party of the Liens granted by it pursuant to the Collateral Documents, (c) the satisfaction of the Perfection Requirements or (d) the exercise by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of its rights under the Loan Documents or the remedies in respect of the Collateral pursuant to the Collateral Documents, except for (i) filings necessary to perfect the Liens on the Collateral granted by the Loan Parties in favor of the Secured Parties, (ii) the approvals, consents, exemptions, authorizations, actions, notices and filings which have been duly obtained, taken, given or made and are in full force, (iii) those approvals, consents, exemptions, authorizations, actions, notices or filings described in the Security Agreement and (iv) those approvals, consents, exemptions, authorizations, actions, notices or filings, the failure of which to obtain or make would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.04. Binding Effect. This Agreement and each other Loan Document has been duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto. This Agreement and each other Loan Document constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party that is a party thereto, enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by the Legal Reservations. Section 5.05. Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect.
   (a) The financial statements most recently provided pursuant to Section 6.01(a) or (b), as applicable, present fairly, in all material respects the financial condition of the Parent or the Borrower, as applicable, on a consolidated basis as of such dates and its results of operations and cash flows for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP, (i) except as otherwise expressly noted herein, (ii) subject, in the case of quarterly financial statements, to the absence of footnotes and normal year-end adjustments and (iii) if applicable, except as may be necessary to reflect any differing entities and/or organizational structure prior to giving effect to the Transactions.
   (b) Since the Closing Date, there has been no change, effect, event or occurrence that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.06. Litigation and Environmental Matters.
   (a) Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.06, there are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened in writing, at law, in equity, in arbitration or by or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that, either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
   (b) Other than as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) none of the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to, or has received notice of any claim with respect to, any Environmental Liability or knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability and (ii) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have been and are in compliance with all Environmental Laws and have obtained, maintained and complied with all permits, licenses or other approvals required under any Environmental Law.
Representations and Warranties Section 5.07. Ownership of Property; Liens.
   (a) Each of the Restricted Companies has good record title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, or easements or other limited property interests in, all real property necessary in the ordinary conduct of its business, free and clear of all Liens except (1) for minor defects in title that do not materially interfere with its ability to conduct its business (2) Liens permitted by Section 7.01 and (3) except where the failure to have such title or the existence of such Lien would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
   (b) Each of the Restricted Companies own, or to the knowledge of the Borrower, possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, licenses, database rights and design rights and other intellectual property rights (collectively, “IP Rights”) that are material to the operation of its business as presently conducted, without violation of the rights of any other Person, except to the extent such failure to own or possess the right to use or such violations, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of the Borrower , the conduct of the business of each Restricted Company does not infringe upon any IP Rights held by any other Person except for such infringements, individually or in the aggregate, which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect . No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower , threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.08. Anti-Corruption Laws and Sanctions.
   (a) None of Holdings, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries nor , to the knowledge of the Borrower , any director, officer, employee or Controlled Affiliate of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a Person that is (i) the subject of any sanctions administered or enforced by OFAC or the U.S. State Department, the United Nations Security Council, the European Union or Her Majesty’s Treasury (collectively, “Sanctions”) or (ii) located, organized or resident in a country or territory that is, or whose government is, the subject of Sanctions (including as of the date of this Agreement, Crimea, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Syria). The Borrower will not, directly or, to the Borrower’s knowledge, indirectly, use the proceeds of the Loans, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any Subsidiary, joint venture partner or other Person to fund any activities or business of, or with, any Person, or in any country or territory that, at the time of such funding, is, or whose government is, the subject of Sanctions or otherwise in violation of Sanctions. Holdings, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance, in all material respects, with the applicable Sanctions.
   (b) None of Holdings, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Borrower, any director, officer, employee or agent of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a material violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and
Representations and Warranties regulations thereunder (the “FCPA”) or any other applicable anti-corruption law. No part of the proceeds of the Loans will be used, directly or to the Borrower’s knowledge , indirectly, for any payments to any governmental official or employee, political party, official of a political party, candidate for political office, or anyone else acting in an official capacity in violation of the FCPA or any other applicable anti-corruption law. Holdings, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance, in all material respects, with the USA Patriot Act and all other applicable anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations. Section 5.09. Taxes. Holdings, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed all U.S. federal income and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid or made provision for payment of all federal and other taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those that are (a) being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP, or (b) with respect to which the failure to make such filing or payment would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.10. ERISA Compliance.
   (a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code except to the extent that non-compliance would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. In the preceding five years, each Loan Party and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Pension Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and in the preceding five years, no application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan, except to the extent a failure to make such contributions or application, as the case may be, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
   (b) There are no pending or, to the knowledge of any Specified Responsible Officer of the Borrower , threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
   (c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur and (ii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA, except, with respect to each of the foregoing clauses of this Section 5.10(c), as would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.11. Subsidiaries; Equity Interests. (a) As of the Closing Date, the Equity Interests of each Restricted Subsidiary that are owned directly or indirectly by the Borrower (and of the Borrower that are owned by Holdings) are owned free and clear of all Liens, except for any
Representations and Warranties Lien permitted under Section 7.01 and (b) as of the Closing Date, Schedule 5.11 sets forth the name and jurisdiction of organization of each Subsidiary (other than Immaterial Subsidiaries) and sets forth the ownership interest of the Borrower and any other Subsidiary in each such Subsidiary, including the percentage of such ownership. Section 5.12. Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act.
   (a) No part of the proceeds of any Loan or any Letter of Credit have been used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, for any purpose that results in a violation of the provisions of Regulation U.
   (b) None of Holdings, the Borrower nor any Restricted Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Section 5.13. Disclosure. As of the Closing Date (a) all written information (other than
   (i) the financial projections, forecasts, financial estimates, other forward-looking and/or projected information and (ii) information of a general economic or industry-specific nature) included in the Confidential Information Memorandum provided in connection with syndication of the Facilities or otherwise furnished by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) when taken as a whole, does not, when furnished contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not materially misleading in the light of the circumstances under and at the time which they were made (after giving effect to all supplements and updates thereto from time to time) and (b) with respect to the financial projections, forecasts, financial estimates, other forward-looking and/or projected information contained therein, the Borrower represents and warrants only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by the Borrower to be reasonable at the time furnished; it being understood that (x) such financial projections, forecasts, financial estimates, other forward-looking and/or projected information are not to be viewed as facts and are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond your control, (y) no assurance can be given that any particular financial projections will be realized and (z) actual results may differ from projected results and that such differences may be material). For the avoidance of doubt, no representation is made with respect to information of a general economic or general industry nature. Section 5.14. Solvency. On the Closing Date, after giving effect to the Transactions, the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries are, on a consolidated basis, Solvent. Section 5.15. Perfection, Etc. Subject to the terms of the final paragraph of Section 4.01, the Legal Reservations, the Perfection Requirements and the provisions, limitations and/or exceptions set forth in this Agreement and/or any other Loan Document, all filings and other actions necessary to perfect and protect the Liens in the Collateral created under and in the manner contemplated by the Collateral Documents have been duly made or taken or otherwise provided for and are in full force and effect, and the Collateral Documents create in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties a valid and, together with such filings and other actions, perfected first priority Liens in the Collateral, securing the payment of the Secured Obligations,

---

## Footnotes

- 1 Default blockers are also referred to as default stoppers; they restrict an action if there is a default or EoD. For example, the Borrower may not be permitted to make certain RPs during a default or EoD.
- 1 Loans can be in different currencies, and within the same credit agreement, one facility could be in USD and another could be available in alternate currencies, as is the case here (see clause (c), indicating that the revolver is available in USD or any alternate currency). “Alternate Currency” will be a defined term and will typically list specifically negotiated currencies, as well as other currencies as agreed by the Agent from time to time.
- 2 In this credit agreement (AP Core / Yahoo), “Alternate Currency” means (i) with respect to any Letter of Credit, Canadian Dollars, Euros, Pound Sterling, Swiss Francs, Australian Dollars and any other currency other than Dollars as may be acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Bank with respect thereto in their sole discretion and (ii) with respect to any Loan, any currency other than Dollars that is approved in accordance with Section 1.05. 3 “Availability Period” will be a defined term and will either run through the maturity date, or some earlier date. Once the Availability Period has expired, the Borrower cannot request additional borrowings under the revolver.
- 4 The incremental (also referred to as the accordion) is included here for completeness of the excerpted provision, but, we will not be focusing on the incremental here. For now, just focus on term loans (including any reference to a DDTL) and revolvers (including LC and swingline facilities).
- 2 Loans, Other Term Loans, Initial Revolving Loans, Extended Revolving Loans or Other Revolving Loans; and (b) when used in respect of any Commitment, whether such Commitment is in respect of a commitment to make Term B-1 Loans, Term B-2 Loans, Other Term Loans, Initial Revolving Loans, Extended Revolving
- 5 Keep an eye out for whether the Agent is able to shorten the number of days for the borrowing notice requirement; lenders care about this because the advance notice requirement gives them time to complete internal processes required prior to funding.
- 6 There is typically a shorter advance notice requirement for the Closing Date borrowings.
- 7 Other than the Closing Date notice, borrowing notices are typically irrevocable.
- 8 This is somewhat beyond the scope of this document but, note that it is not the issuer’s job to investigate whether the triggers have actually occurred. The issuer’s role is to fund if demand is made based on a representation by the beneficiary that it is owed payment.
- 9 The credit agreement will specify whether LCs can be issued in alternate currencies, or USD only.
- 10 This language establishes the time period during which LCs may be requested. If the Borrower has less than 5 business days left before the maturity date for the revolver, then, an LC cannot be requested.
- 11 There are advance notice requirements for LCs, just like a term or other type of revolving loan borrowing notice.
- 12 In addition to LCs not exceeding the total LC commitment under the facility, there will be a by lender breakdown of each lender’s LC commitment (which adds up to the total LC commitment under the facility).
- 13 Swingline loans are available same-day. The tradeoff for the immediacy of funds is that they are typically more expensive.
- 14 Same advance notice requirement as a borrowing notice under the borrowing requests section.
- 15 See defined term above.
- 16 See defined term above.
- 17 Note that some of our clients (e.g. BofA) ask that breakage language avoid referring to “actual” losses.
- 18 This is an example of break fees showing up at the back of the credit agreement; see clause (d).
- 19 Section 3.06 in this credit agreement (Leaf Home) is the breakage provision (called Funding Losses in the Leaf Home credit agreement).
- 20 If there are multiple term loans (e.g. Term B-1 and Term B-2), add another “Term Loan” line to the grid and label each one accordingly.
- 1 Excerpted from the Consilio First Lien Credit Agreement dated May 14, 2021. prohibited hereunder and the documentation governing such other Indebtedness requires such a prepayment or repurchase thereof with the proceeds of such Prepayment Event, in each case in an amount not to exceed the product of (x) the amount of such Net Proceeds and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the outstanding principal amount of such other Indebtedness and the denominator of which is the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Term Loans and such other Indebtedness. 6.04(b): Within the Reinvestment Period after the Borrower’s or any Restricted Subsidiary’s receipt of the Net Proceeds of any Asset Sale (or before such receipt, in the case of clause (b)(ii)(2) below), the Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary shall apply an amount equal to the Net Proceeds from such Asset Sale:
- 2 Excerpted from the Consilio First Lien Credit Agreement dated May 14, 2021. reduction shall exclude all such payments funded with the proceeds of other long-term Indebtedness (other than the Revolving Loans and Indebtedness that has been repaid). Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, at the Borrower’s option, (1) the Senior Secured First Lien Net Leverage Ratio in the definition of “ECF Percentage” shall be recalculated to give pro forma effect to any amount referred to in proviso clauses (i) and (ii) above that is paid or otherwise realized or accounted for after the end of the applicable fiscal year but prior to the making of the Excess Cash Flow payment required for such fiscal year and (2) any payments and cash uses under clauses (i) and (ii) above that have not been applied to reduce the payments which may be due from time to time pursuant to this Section 2.10(d) shall be carried over to subsequent periods, and may reduce the payments due from time to time pursuant to this Section 2.10(d) during such subsequent periods (until such time as such payments and cash uses are so applied to reduce such payments which may be due from time to time). Each prepayment pursuant to this Section 2.10(d) shall be made on or before the date that is ten (10) days after the date on which financial statements are required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 with respect to the fiscal year for which Excess Cash Flow is being calculated. Defined Terms:
- 3 Excerpted from the Echo Global First Lien Credit Agreement dated November 23, 2021. money permitted pursuant to Section 6.01 (other than Refinancing Term Loans, Refinancing Revolving Loans and Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refinance any Class of Loans hereunder)), the Borrower shall, substantially simultaneously with (and in any event not later than the fifth Business Day next following) the receipt of such Net Cash Proceeds by Holdings or such Subsidiary, apply an amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds to prepay outstanding Term Loans in accordance with Section 2.13(e).